# LTEPlasmaFoam

*Contact*: [Emanuele Ghedini](mailto:emanuele.ghedini@unibo.it) [Giorgio La Civita](mailto:giorgio.lacivita2@unibo.it) from the 
DIN, Alma Mater Studiorum - University of Bologna.

**Index**
- [LTEPlasmaFoam](#lteplasmafoam)
  - [Compatibility](#compatibility)
  - [How to install](#installation)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [How to use](#howtouse)

## Compatibility

This extension of OpenFOAM has been tested with OpenFOAM-v1906 only distributed by the ESI Group with the following OSs:
  - CentOS 7
  - Ubuntu from 18.10 to 22.04

## How to install
Installation has to be performed by manual compilation:
  - Download OpenFOAM's v1906 installation files from:
    - https://sourceforge.net/projects/openfoam/files/v1906/OpenFOAM-v1906.tgz/download
    - https://sourceforge.net/projects/openfoam/files/v1906/ThirdParty-v1906.tgz/download
    and unzip the archives.
  - Copy and replace the content of OpenFOAM-v1906 from this repository to the correspondent unzipped folder.
  - Compile OpenFOAM. Please refer to the following guide for pre-requisites and compilation instructions:
    - https://develop.openfoam.com/Development/openfoam/-/blob/master/doc/Build.md
  - Copy in your OpenFOAM user directory (e.g. johndoe-v1906 for a user with username johndoe. See the OpenFOAm reference guide for more.)
    and compile the additional files containe din "user-v1906".

## Introduction
This extension adds to OpenFOAM some capabilities which are essential when simulating Local Thermal Equilibrium (LTE) plasma discharges:
  - A tabulated interface for thermophysical properties.
  - Integration of the electrical conductivity property for all interfaces and solvers.
  - A new turbulence model based on 
  - A D'Alembert equation solver for the pressure field, under the assumption of uniform speed of sound.
  - A solver for the electromagnetic field generated by RF current field.
  - A solver for the magnetic field generated by permanent magnets.
  - A solver for a steady-state Direct Current (DC) discharge for buoyant, turbulent flow of compressible fluids,
    including radiation, for ventilation and heat-transfer.
  - A solver for steady-state Direct Current (DC) discharge for buoyant, turbulent fluid flow and solid heat
    conduction with conjugate heat transfer between solid and fluid regions (under-testing).
  - A solver for steady-state Radio Frequency (DC) discharge for buoyant, turbulent fluid flow and solid heat
    conduction with conjugate heat transfer between solid and fluid regions (under-testing).
  - Two new conditions (magneticCoupling and potentialCoupling) to be used with the DCArcFoam, multiRegionDCArcFoam, RFArcFoam solvers.

## How to use
A set of simulation tutorials will be released soon!